README.md, before:

# gdb-pt-dump

`gdb-pt-dump` is a gdb script to examine the address space of a QEMU-based virtual machine.
Although this is also possible via the `monitor` and `pwndbg` interfaces, working with them is cumbersome, slow and sometimes they produce erroneous results.

## Features

* Dumping a page table from a specific guest physical address.
* Merging semantically-similar contiguous memory.
* Provide detailed architectural information: writeable, executable, U/S, cacheable, write-back, XN, PXN, etc
* Cache collected information for future filtering and printing.
* Filter page table information via page attributes (x, w, u, s, ...) and virtual addresses (before, after, between)
* Search memory very fast using `/proc/QEMU_PID/mem`. Search for string, u8, u4
  Search is applied after filter.
* Filter-out search results by address alignment. Useful for filtering-out SLAB allocations.
* Try to determine KASLR information by examining the address space.
* Find virtual memory aliases.

## How to use

The script is standalone.

For now, do `source PATH_TO_PT_DUMP/pt.py`.

For details, just do `help pt` in gdb.

## Examples

![x86_64: Only user space pages](example_pictures/x86_64_user_space.jpg "x86_64 only user space")

![x86_64: Only executable pages](example_pictures/x86_64_exec_filter.jpg "x86_64 only executable")

![aarch64: User space accessible pages](example_pictures/aarch64_user.jpg "Aarch64 user space accessible")

![aarch64: write or executable pages](example_pictures/aarch64_w_or_x.jpg "Aarch64 write or executable pages")

![aarch64: only executable pages](example_pictures/aarch64_x.jpg "Aarch64 only executable pages")

![Saved page tables](example_pictures/cache_list.jpg "Show saved page tables")

## Possible issues

Old QEMU versions seem to not provide access to privileged registers like cr3.
Thus, the page table address would need to be retrieved in some other way.

## Supported architectures

Supported architectures: `x86-64`, `aarch64`, `riscv64`.
Planned: `x86-32`.

Commit message:

pt: move arch higher in readme and add pt_host mention

README.md, after:

# gdb-pt-dump

`gdb-pt-dump` is a gdb script to enhance debugging of a QEMU-based virtual machine.

The repository also includes `pt_host` which extends the tool for examining the page tables of a Linux process.

## Supported architectures

Supported architectures: `x86-64`, `x86-32`, `aarch64`, `riscv64`.

## Features

* Dumping a page table from a specific guest physical address.
* Merging semantically-similar contiguous memory.
* Provide detailed architectural information: writeable, executable, U/S, cacheable, write-back, XN, PXN, etc
* Cache collected information for future filtering and printing.
* Filter page table information via page attributes (x, w, u, s, ...) and virtual addresses (before, after, between)
* Search memory very fast using `/proc/QEMU_PID/mem`. Search for string, u8, u4
  Search is applied after filter.
* Filter-out search results by address alignment. Useful for filtering-out SLAB allocations.
* Try to determine KASLR information by examining the address space.
* Find virtual memory aliases.
* Dump host page tables via `pt_host.py`

## How to use

The script is standalone.

For now, do `source PATH_TO_PT_DUMP/pt.py`.

For details, just do `help pt` in gdb.

## Examples

![x86_64: Only user space pages](example_pictures/x86_64_user_space.jpg "x86_64 only user space")

![x86_64: Only executable pages](example_pictures/x86_64_exec_filter.jpg "x86_64 only executable")

![aarch64: User space accessible pages](example_pictures/aarch64_user.jpg "Aarch64 user space accessible")

![aarch64: write or executable pages](example_pictures/aarch64_w_or_x.jpg "Aarch64 write or executable pages")

![aarch64: only executable pages](example_pictures/aarch64_x.jpg "Aarch64 only executable pages")

![Saved page tables](example_pictures/cache_list.jpg "Show saved page tables")

## Possible issues

Old QEMU versions seem to not provide access to privileged registers like cr3.
Thus, the page table address would need to be retrieved in some other way.
